RSS_IDENT_s_29353494_b_1_2_4
 Inflammation and Cholangiocarcinoma Carcinogenesis Carcinogenesis in the biliary tract following chronic inflammation is a clinically acknowledged event. Chemical injury, inflammation, stones, or infections are all proven risk factors. For example, pancreaticobiliary maljunction causes the reflux of bile and pancreatic secretions, injuring the mucosa in the gallbladder and common bile duct. A variety of inflammatory modulators and molecules produced or activated during chronic inflammation act to activate oncogenic signaling in biliary mucosa. A separate class of inflammatory ICC has been demonstrated, with activation of inflammatory pathways. Chronic inflammatory processes induce productions of multiple cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-6 (IL-6), transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β), and platelet-derived growth factor; these molecules are involved in carcinogenesis of cholangiocarcinoma by affecting biliary epithelial function and proliferation. ⁷⁵ Multiple important signaling pathways have been identified to be involved in biliary carcinogenesis, which include TGF-β/Smad, IL-6/STAT-3, PI3K/AKT, Wnt, RAF/MEK/MAPK, and Notch cascade. For example, IL-6 induces antiapoptotic protein myeloid cell leukemia 1 (Mcl-1) via phosphorylation of signal transducers and activators of transcription 3 in cholangiocarcinoma. ⁷⁶ Gankyrin activates IL-6/STAT3 signaling by suppressing Rb. ⁷⁷ Silencing of suppressor of cytokine signaling 3, which controls the IL-6/STAT-3 signaling, further contributes to sustained IL-6/STAT-3 signaling and enhanced Mcl-1 expression in cholangiocarcinoma. ⁷⁸ Epigenetic regulation by IL-6 contributes to cholangiocarcinoma progression via affecting promoter methylation and gene expression in growth regulatory pathways, including that of EGFR. ⁷⁹ A well-studied example illustrating the intimacy between biliary carcinogenesis and chronic inflammatory processes is PSC and ICC. Primary sclerosing cholangitis, which is an idiopathic and progressive cholestatic liver disease characterized by inflammation, concentric fibrosis, and obliteration of the intrahepatic and extrahepatic bile ducts, with concomitant ductal injury and ductal disappearance, is tightly connected to cholangiocarcinoma. ⁸⁰ Multiple biliary molecules have been uncovered to play distinct roles in cholangiocarcinoma carcinogenesis. One of them is S100A9, a calcium-binding protein and a marker for disease activity in PSC. ⁸¹ Interestingly, innate natural killer immunity is associated with protection against cholangiocarcinoma carcinogenesis in patients with PSC, although the involved molecular mechanism has not been clearly established; presumably its interaction with the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I polypeptide plays a key role in this process. ⁸²
