RSS_IDENT_p_29578370_b_1_5_3
 In Hutchinson-Gilford progeria, severe premature atherosclerosis leads to myocardial infarction and strokes, the major causes of patients’ death at a mean age of 14.6 years. This has been linked to accumulation of progerin, a farnesylated mutated form of prelamin A expressed in patient's cells [ 99–101 ]. We observed, in FPLD2, that p.Arg482Trp prelamin A accumulated abnormally at the nuclear envelope and induced endothelial cell dysfunction with increased oxidative stress and cellular senescence [ 98 ]. Additionally, we recently showed that several LMNA mutations, either leading to a lipodystrophy typical of the FPLD2 type, or associated with signs of premature ageing, also triggered vascular smooth muscle cell senescence with osteoblastic transdifferentiation and calcification [ 102 ]. This could lead to early vascular calcifications, as observed in patients [ 102 ]. All together, these studies suggest that LMNA mutations responsible for lipodystrophies may directly affect the arterial wall, resulting in early atherosclerosis and vascular calcification, in addition to atherosclerotic lesions resulting from associated metabolic risk factors (Figure 4). In human induced pluripotent stem cells, p.R482W lamin A was recently shown to deregulate the network of genes involved in early vascular differentiation, which is also in favor of a cell-autonomous origin of endothelial cell dysfunction in FPLD2 [ 103 ]. This should encourage researchers to develop therapeutic strategies aiming at minimizing the cellular amount and toxicity of pathogenic A-type lamin variants, not only in Hutchinson-Gilford progeria but also in LMNA-linked lipodystrophic diseases. Figure 4. Vascular effects of LMNA mutations causing lipodystrophy. A. Prelamin-A physiologically undergoes a complex post-translational maturation process affecting its C-terminal CaaX motif. After farnesylation of the carboxy-terminal cysteine, aaX amino acids are removed, farnesyl-cysteine is carboxymethylated, then the 15 C-terminal amino acids are cleaved by the metalloprotease ZMPSTE24 to produce mature lamin A. B. Lipodystrophy-causing mutations in LMNA lead to accumulation of farnesylated prelamin A and nuclear envelope disorganization. C. Accumulation of prelamin A pathogenic variants at the nuclear envelope induces oxidative stress, inflammation and cellular senescence. These cellular alterations contribute to endothelial cell dysfunction and to osteoblastic transdifferentiation of vascular smooth muscle cell, promoting atherosclerosis and vascular calcification.
