RSS_IDENT_p_29916534_b_1_1_3
 The pathophysiological mechanisms of HPSCC are not yet well understood. Previous studies have demonstrated that ectopically expressed genes, microRNAs (miRNAs or miRs) and long non-coding RNAs were involved in the initiation, development and prognosis of HPSCC. Tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 (TNFR1) is a membranous receptor that anchors on the surface of the cell membrane, which belongs to the TNF receptor superfamily ( 6 , 7 ). The upregulation of TNFR1 has been shown to be associated with clinical staging, T stage, cervical lymph node metastasis and histological grade in HPSCC ( 8 ). The immunoglobulin heavy chain binding protein (BiP)/glucose-regulated protein 78 (GRP78) plays an important role in the endoplasmic reticulum stress and is known to be highly expressed in various human neoplasms. A decreased expression of GRP78/BiP has been reported to predict a poor overall survival and progression-free survival of patients with advanced HPSCC ( 9 ). The downregulation of miR-140-5p has also been shown to be associated with tumor stage and lymph node metastasis, and the restoration of miR-140-5p inhibits cell migration and invasion in HPSCC by targeting ADAM metallopeptidase (ADAM10), which is involved in the Notch1 signaling pathway ( 10 ). The expression of AB209630, a long non-coding RNA, has been shown to be markedly lower in HPSCC cell lines and tumor tissues compared with the normal cells and tissues, and functions as a tumor suppressor in HPSCC. A high expression of AB209630 significantly has been shown to inhibit the growth, metastasis and invasion of HSPCC in vitro, and a decreased expression of AB209630 predicts a poorer prognosis ( 11 ). In addition, abnormal methylation is associated with tumorigenesis in HSPCC. The hypermethylation of G protein-coupled receptor kinase 6 (GRK6) has been observed in HPSCC tissues compared to the matched adjacent normal tissues. GRK6 is also associated with tumor invasion and TNM stage in HPSCC ( 12 ).
