RSS_IDENT_p_30001383_b_1_1_3
 Since OM has high potential to metastasize, a combination of treatments is usually required for the late-stage OM, clinical stages III and IV. A number of chemotherapy drugs have been used to cure canine oral cancers after surgery. At the animal teaching hospital, Faculty of Veterinary Science, Chulalongkorn University, dogs with the late-stage OM undergo carboplatin chemotherapy with the median dosage 300 mg/m² for 6 times or else the metronomic therapy, continuous administration of low doses cyclophosphamide (10 mg/m²) and standard dose piroxicam (0.3 mg/kg) as previously reported [ 36 , 37 ]. Carboplatin, a derivative of the anti-cancer drug cisplatin, and doxorubicin (also called adriamycin) are common chemotherapy drugs used in canine oral cancer treatment, whereas cyclophosphamide and piroxicam have also been widely used in metronomic chemotherapy [ 36 , 38 , 39 ]. In the present study, a fast and inexpensive bioinformatic tool was used to uncover functional relationships between drugs and disease proteins and fulfill experimental data. The proposed network maps demonstrated the molecular basis of disease, which could probably help select potential targets for early diagnosis, prognosis or effective treatment. The present study aimed to characterize PMFs of OM, OSCC, BN and normal control subjects, using MALDI-TOF and liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), to identify potential protein candidates associated with the diseases, using GeLC-MS/MS and to search for relationships between chemotherapy drugs and disease-perturbed proteins. Herein, we found a distinct cluster and a unique PMF in each canine oral tumor group. In addition, unique peptide fragment at 2,274 Da of sacsin molecular chaperone (SACS) was observed in early-stage OM, and at 1,958 Da of sodium voltage-gated channel alpha subunit 10 (SCN10A) in early- and late-stage OM. The peptide mass at 2,316 Da of Notch1 appeared in early-stage OM and benign oral tumors while the peptide mass at 2,505 Da of glutamate ionotropic receptor N-methyl-D-aspartate type subunit 3A (GRIN3A) was identified in all sample groups. We also found a peptide fragment at 3,039 Da of leucine-tRNA synthetase (LARS) in early-stage OM, OSCC, and benign oral tumors. Using GeLC-MS/MS, we discovered potentially novel candidate markers of canine oral tumors such as Jumonji domain containing 1C (JMJD1C or TRIP8) in benign tumors, inversin (INVS) and rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor 28 (ARHGEF28) in OM, BTB domain-containing 16 (BTBD16) in OSCC, and protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 1 (PTPN1), BRCA2, WW domain binding protein 2 (WBP2), purinergic receptor P2Y1 variant 2 (P2Y1) and proteasome activator subunit 4 (PSME4) in all cancerous groups. We also demonstrated relationships between cisplatin and doxorubicin and disease-perturbed proteins, whereas cyclophosphamide/piroxicam showed no or very faint relationships with most proteins. These data might help veterinarians choose drugs of choice and treatment plan.
