RSS_IDENT_s_30211312_b_1_2_10
 DTC gene expression profiles appear different from those of CTCs Next, we compared expression profiles of DTCs with CTC gene expression data recently reported by our group. ⁹ In a previous study, CTCs were isolated from blood of metastatic breast cancer patients using the same IE/FACS method, and profiled using the same microfluidic aQPCR platform. The merged data was normalized using the reference genes (RPS18 and ACTB). Unsupervised hierarchical clustering of CTCs (n = 105), DTCs (n = 30), blood (n = 76), and bone marrow leukocytes (n = 15) revealed four major clusters (Fig. 6a). The first cluster, which formed an entirely separate group, contained identical DTC samples from previously identified cluster 1. The second cluster contained samples that were predominantly CTCs. The third cluster contained a combination of blood and marrow leukocytes. The fourth cluster had seven subclusters, each with mostly the same cell types. Subcluster 6, for example, contained all but one of the DTC samples belonging to the previously identified cluster 2. Two-dimensional t-SNE analysis to identify clusters revealed similar results (Fig. 6b). In general, bone marrow and blood leukocytes clustered together, while CTCs formed a separate cluster. Moreover, DTC samples separated into two groups corresponding to the clusters identified above. Fig. 6 DTCs and CTCs exhibit expression profiles that are unique from each other. a Unsupervised hierarchical clustering analysis of CTCs (n = 105) and DTCs (n = 30) along with matched blood leukocytes (n = 76) and marrow leukocytes (n = 15). b t-SNE analysis to determine clusters based on similarities in gene expression. c A rose plot showing genes upregulated in DTCs and CTCs. Genes with an adjusted p-value < 0.05 were considered statistically significant. Relative quantification (RQ) is reported in the logarithmic scale (log10 RQ = log10^2-∆∆CT). A Log10 RQ = 1 or −1 means a gene is expressed 10 times or 1/10 as much, respectively Differential expression analysis revealed that, relative to DTCs, CTCs exhibit upregulation of epithelial (KRT7, KRT19, MUC1) and EMT (SNAI1) markers; upregulation of the androgen receptor (AR), estrogen-related genes (ESR1, AGR2, SCUBE2, SCGB2A2, SCGB2A1, TFF1, TFF3), as well as HER2-related genes (ERBB2, GRB7) (Fig. 6c). DTCs, on the other hand, displayed upregulation of mesenchymal (VIM) and epithelial markers (KRT6A, KRT6B, KRT18), and putative stem cell marker ALDH1A1.
