RSS_IDENT_s_30429845_b_1_3
 Evidence for autoimmune pathways and oxidative stress in psoriasis The autoimmune side of psoriasis pathogenesis PsO is immune-mediated inflammatory cutaneous disease characterized by keratinocyte proliferation and chronic inflammation ( 58 ). Recently, evidence has supported that PsO has an autoimmune pathogenesis and three different autoantigens have been identified so far: cathelicidin LL37, a domain thrombospondin type 1 motif-like 5 (ADAMTSL5) present in metalloproteases, and lipid antigens generated by phospholipase called PLA2G4D ( 66 , 67 ). LL37 is a peptide upregulated in psoriatic skin with antimicrobial properties, LL37 can bind self RNA and DNA in complexes which are able to activate plasmacytoid and myeloid dendritic cells ( 68 ). This leads to an expansion of LL37-specific T cells producing pathogenic cytokines such as INF-γ, IL17, and IL-22. LL37 presentation to CD8 and CD4 T cells is mediated by HLA-Class I, in particular (HLA)-Cw0602 and HLA-Class II molecules respectively ( 69 ). ADAMTSL5 is an autoantigen presented by (HLA)-Cw0602 in PsO, the derived peptide can stimulate psoriatic T cells but not T cells from healthy individuals, resulting in IL17 production ( 68 ). Moreover, ADAMTSL5 and LL37 are increased in psoriatic lesions and are co-expressed by many immune cells, dendritic cells, neutrophils, macrophages, and T cells within skin. Both ADAMTSL5 and LL37 can be decreased by treatment with IL-17 or TNF-α inhibitors ( 70 ). Lastly, there is evidence for non-peptide autoantigen in PsO. T cells from PsA patients can recognize also lipid antigens generated in mast cells by PLA2G4D which are presented by CD1a. PLA2G4D is expressed in psoriatic skin lesions, but not in skin of healthy individuals ( 71 ). PsO pathogenesis is multifactorial, resulting from a combination of genetic, epigenetic, and environmental factors which lead to activation of an abnormal immune response. Working models for PsO suggest that several immune cells may present these antigens to autoreactive T cells with following activation and clonal expansion ( 60 ). This mechanism induces cytokines production, immune cells activation, and cell recruitment which in turn contributes to the amplification of inflammatory response and keratinocytes proliferation in PsO.
