RSS_IDENT_s_30532554_b_1_1
 Introduction Inflammation is the most important factor that contributes to colon cancer development and growth. Several studies have reported a close association between chronic inflammation and cancer involving Toll-like receptors (TLRs) and their signaling pathways. 1 , 2 Other studies showed that TLRs and their agonists can serve as therapeutic targets in several cancer and immune diseases to induce either apoptosis or anti-tumor responses. 3 These receptors are mainly expressed in normal human mature cells that play a role in innate immunity such as monocytes, neutrophils, macrophages, dendritic cells, T cells, B cells, and natural killer cells. 4 TLRs are also expressed on tumor cells in a wide variety of tissues, suggesting their important roles in tumor cell evasion from immune-surveillance. 1 , 3 , 5 These receptors act as innate immune sensors against endogenous and exogenous danger signals by recognizing pattern recognition molecules (damage-associated molecular pattern [DAMPs] and pathogen-associated molecular pattern [PAMPs]) 6 – 8 and driving an adaptive immune response through their signaling pathways, leading to nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) and interferon regulatory factor 3 translocation and transactivation. 9 This activates various inflammatory cytokines 10 such as tumor necrosis factor and interleukin-6. TLR signaling consists of at least two distinct pathways: one is a myeloid differentiation primary-response protein-88 (MyD88)-dependent pathway, while the other is MYD88-independent. Most TLRs types activate MYD88 signaling pathways, 11 which requires TLRs adaptor proteins including MYD88, Toll-interleukin 1 receptor domain-containing adaptor protein, Toll/interleukin-1 receptor domain-containing adaptor protein inducing interferon beta, and Toll-interleukin 1 receptor domain-containing adapter molecule 2. 12 So far, more than 13 types of TLRs have been identified; 10 functional TLRs family members (TLRs 1–10) have been identified in humans, 13 while the other TLRs 11–13 are found in rodent species (rats and mice). 14 TLR polymorphisms influence dysregulation of the immune system and the development of different types of cancers. Recently, Slattery et al 15 and Semlali et al 16 reported that TLR4 single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) (rs11536898) is associated with colon cancer development. SNPs in the TLR1, TLR6, and TLR10 cluster increase prostate cancer susceptibility. 17 In addition, recent data revealed a strong link between the risk of gastric cancer development and presence of SNPs in TLR2 and TLR4. 18 , 19 These previous studies suggest an association between innate immunity gene polymorphism and inflammation process, which increases the susceptibility of gastric carcinogenesis development. 20 Recently, the TLR4 (Asp299Gly) SNP was found to be associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer development in a north Indian population. 21 A synthetic meta-analysis based on data from 22 studies also confirmed the association of the TLR4 Asp299Gly SNP with increased gastrointestinal cancer risk, but with decreased prostate cancer risk. 22 Additionally, Bhide et al 11 found a close association between novel mutations in TLR genes (TLR1-Ser150Gly and Val 220 Met; TLR2 – Phe 670Leu) and an increased susceptibility to Mycobacterium avium subsp. Para tuberculosis.
