RSS_IDENT_p_30755581_b_1_3_4
 Transcriptional regulation plays a vital role in regulating autophagy. ZKSCAN3 functions in vivo as a negative regulator of autophagic flux ²⁴ . ZKSCAN3 activation result in dysfunctional autophagy regulation, reduction of autophagosome formation and impairment of autophagosome-lysosomes fusions and cargo degradation ²¹ . A30P α-synuclein demonstrates increased expression of ZKSCAN3. Corresponding changes in LC3-II are further revealed in reduced responsiveness to A30P α-synuclein overexpression. In contrast, when neurons were transduced with A30P α-synuclein AAV, there was no detected change of transcription factor EB (TFEB), a master regulator associated with autophagy and lysosome biogenesis (Fig. 2). In addition, A30P α-synuclein showed no effect on LC3 cleavage. The levels of LC3-II correlate well with the number of autophagosomes present in the cytoplasm and are hence used for autophagic flux assessment. A30P α-synuclein clearly decreased the synthesis rather than enhanced degradation of LC3-II. A30P α-synuclein overexpression elicits the decreased LC3-II and the increased p62 protein levels, suggesting the repressed autophagy. Despite the results for assaying autophagic flux are solid, applying immunoblotting to assess the effect of A30P α-synuclein on autophagy only provides the one-way evidences. Visualizing autophagosomes formation via fluorescence (e.g., mRFP-GFP-LC3 vectors) may show new insights into what is happening to the impairment resulted from A30P α-synuclein. Moreover, ZKSCAN3 shRNA directly increased the downstream protein (MAP1LC3B and GABARAPL2) expression of ZKSCAN3 at the transcriptional level and significantly antagonized the autophagy inhibition effect induced by A30P α-synuclein (Fig. 3). Next, we checked the effect of ZKSCAN3 overexpression on autophagy in midbrain dopaminergic neuron. Increased ZKSCAN3 significantly reduced levels of LC3-II and TFEB and elicited p62aggregation (Fig. 4a, b). These results suggest that A30P α-synuclein compromise autophagosome formation via ZKSCAN3.
