RSS_IDENT_s_30954949_b_1_5_8
 Negative prognostic role of cholesterol pathway activation in human hepatocellular carcinoma Finally, we evaluated the mRNA levels and activity of SREBP2 in a human HCC cohort whose clinicopathological data were available (n=65; online supplementary table S3). We found that SREBP2 mRNA expression did not significantly differ between HCC and corresponding SL (online supplementary figure S26A). In contrast, SREBP2 transcriptional activity was significantly higher in HCC than in SL (online supplementary figure S26A). Furthermore, SREBP2 activity was significantly more elevated in HCC samples with poorer prognosis (HCCP) when compared with those with better prognosis (HCCB). When assessing the relationship between SREBP2 and patients’ clinicopathological data, we found that higher activity of the SREBP2 gene correlates with lower HCC survival rate (P<0.0001; online supplementary figure S26B). This association remained strongly significant after multivariate Cox regression analysis (p<0.0001; online supplementary table S3), thus implying SREBP2 activity as an independent prognostic factor for HCC. No relationship between the transcriptional activity of SREBP2 and other clinicopathological parameters of the patients, including age, gender, aetiology, the presence of cirrhosis, tumour size and tumour grade were detected (online supplementary table S3). A similar correlation with tumour aggressiveness and patients’ survival was detected when assessing the levels of SREBP2 target HMGCR in the same sample collection (online supplementary figure S26C). In addition, a significant, positive correlation between the transcription activity of SREBP2 and the mRNA levels of HMGCR was identified (p<0.0001; online supplementary figure S26D). To further validate these results, we analysed the mRNA expression of additional SREBP2 target genes, including MVK, lanosterol synthase (LSS), and 24-dehydrocholesterol reductase (DHCR24). Noticeably, mRNA expression of these genes correlated with SREBP2 activity in human HCC samples, but not SREBP2 mRNA levels (online supplementary figure S27A–C). Importantly, high levels of MVK, LSS and DHCR24 were all associated with poor patients’ prognosis (online supplementary figure S27D). Supplementary data Altogether, these data demonstrate that upregulation of SREBP2 and its transcriptional programme is a molecular feature of aggressive HCC in humans.
