RSS_IDENT_s_30987676_b_1_3_5
 miR-143-5p and AMPK are upregulated while eEF2 is downregulated and cartilage differentiation is inhibited in degenerative IVD tissues The mRNA and protein levels of cartilage differentiation-related and AMPK signaling pathway-related genes in normal IVD and degenerative IVD were detected using RT-qPCR (Fig. 4a) and Western blot analysis (Fig. 4b, c). When compared to the normal IVD, degenerative IVD showed significantly decreased mRNA and protein levels of mTOR, Bcl-2, cyclinD and eEF2, and p-mTOR/t-mTOR protein level ratio, while obviously increased mRNA and protein levels of Bax and AMPK, p-AMPK/t-AMPK protein level ratio, and miR-143-5p expression. Fig. 4 IDD rats exhibit upregulated miR-143-5p and activated AMPK signaling pathway yet inhibited NP cell differentiation and eEF2. a miR-143-5p expression and mRNA expression of Bax, AMPK, mTOR, Bcl-2, cyclinD, and eEF2 in normal IVD and degenerative IVD. b, c Protein levels and bands of Bax, AMPK, mTOR, Bcl-2, cyclinD, and eEF2 in normal IVD and degenerative IVD. d Protein levels of COL2, ACAN, and DCN in normal IVD and degenerative IVD; the experiment was repeated three times independently; data were expressed by mean ± standard deviation; comparison of data between two groups was conducted using a t-test; *, p < 0.05 vs. normal IVD; miR-143-5p, microRNA-143-5p; IVD, intervertebral disc; eEF2, eukaryotic translation elongation factor 2; AMPK, AMP activated protein kinase; Bax, Bcl-2 Associated X protein; Bcl-2, B cell lymphoma-2; mTOR, mammalian target of rapamycin; GAPDH, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase; COL2, collagen type II; ACAN, aggrecan; DCN, decorin The protein levels of cartilage differentiation-related genes in normal IVD and degenerative IVD were detected using Western blot analysis (Fig. 4d). When compared to the normal IVD, degenerative IVD showed significantly decreased levels of COL2, ACAN, and DCN proteins (p < 0.05). Therefore, these results demonstrated that miR-143-5p highly expressed and AMPK signaling pathway activation was induced in degenerative IVD, while eEF2 lowly expressed and cartilage differentiation was inhibited.
