RSS_IDENT_s_31036697_b_1_2_5
 The adenosinergic response in CPFE Using explanted lung tissue derived from upper or lower lung lobes from CPFE patients or from normal lungs that were discarded for transplantation, we evaluated mediators that are involved in the generation and degradation of adenosine, in addition to adenosine receptors. In CPFE, upper lobes often present with emphysema, whereas fibrotic deposition is more prevalent in lower lobes. Quantitative RT-PCR for the ectonucleotidases CD39 (ENTPD1) and CD73 (NT5E) (Fig. 6A,B) demonstrated increased expression of the rate limiting enzyme CD73 but not CD39 in lower lobes, but not in upper lobes, of CPFE compared to normal lung tissue (Fig. 6A,B). No differences were seen in ADA expression levels from lung tissue derived from upper or lower lobes (Fig. 6C). Equilibrative nucleoside transporters (ENT) also regulate extracellular adenosine levels whereby reduced expression is associated with increased adenosine accumulation and the development of lung injury ( Luo et al., 2016 ). However, we report no difference in ENT expression in CPFE despite a downward trend for ENT2 (SLC29A2) in lower lobes of CPFE lungs (Fig. 6D). Expression levels of adenosine receptors did not show significant alterations in ADORA1 or ADORA2A between normal and CPFE lung tissue (Fig. 6E,F). However, increased expression of ADORA2B was detected in lower lobes of CPFE compared to normal lungs, but not in tissue derived from upper lobes (Fig. 6G). Similarly to ADORA1 and ADORA2A, no significant difference in expression of ADORA3 was observed between normal and CPFE-derived lung tissue (Fig. 6H). Taken together, these results suggest that in CPFE, as in other chronic lung diseases ( Karmouty-Quintana et al., 2013b ), adenosine synthesis is increased, together with expression of its low-affinity receptor, ADORA2B. Fig. 6. The adenosinergic response in CPFE. (A-H) Lung transcript levels for CD39 (A), CD73 (B), ADA (C), ENT2 (D), ADORA1 (E), ADORA2A (F), ADORA2B (G) and ADORA3 (H) from upper lobes from normal lungs (white bars), upper lobes from CPFE lungs (light blue bars), lower lobes from normal lungs (gray bars) and lower lobes from CPFE lungs (dark blue bars). Data are mean+s.e.m. (n=3 per group). *P<0.05 (comparisons between normal and CPFE groups within upper or lower lung lobes); unpaired two-tailed Student's t-test with a Welch correction.
