RSS_IDENT_s_31289556_b_1_1
 Introduction Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-associated mortality worldwide and non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) accounts for 80–85% of all lung cancer cases ( 1 ). Mutations and gene amplifications of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) frequently occur in NSCLC, and EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) are regularly used to treat patients with NSCLC and prolong progression-free survival (PFS) ( 2 , 3 ). Thus, it is recommended to screen for EGFR mutations in patients with NSCLC and that patients with sensitizing EGFR mutations are treated with first-line EGFR-TKIs, whereas patients with NSCLC wihtout EGFR mutation or unknown mutational status are treated with platinum-based chemotherapy ( 4 , 5 ). In the clinic, the majority of patients with EGFR mutations initially respond very well to EGFR-TKIs; however, a large proportion of them eventually develop drug resistance ( 6 ). The underlying molecular mechanisms of drug resistance may be due to receptor tyrosine-protein kinase erbB-2 (HER2) amplification and EGFR T790M mutation, MET proto-oncogene, receptor tyrosine kinase (c-MET) amplification, phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase catalytic subunit α (PIK3CA) mutation or B-Raf proto-oncogene, serine/threonine kinase (BRAF) mutations in tumor tissues ( 7 ). However, the specific molecular mechanisms require further investigation. For example, previous studies demonstrated that estrogen receptor (ER)β was overexpressed in NSCLC tissue specimens, which may be associated with resistance to treatment with EGFR-TKIs in patients with NSCLC ( 8 , 9 ). ERβ is the most commonly observed subtype of ER expressed in lung cancer ( 8 , 9 ). Previous studies have suggested cross-talk between the ERβ and EGFR signaling pathways in lung cancer ( 10 – 12 ). ERβ is frequently overexpressed in NSCLC with EGFR mutations, particularly in lung adenocarcinoma ( 13 , 14 ), and ERβ expression was reported to be associated with the prognosis of NSCLC with EGFR mutations subsequent to treatment with EGFR-TKIs ( 15 – 17 ). There are five known isoforms of ERβ, and ERβ1 is the only known full-length and functional ERβ isoform expressed in various cells and tissues ( 18 ), and is the most relevant prognostic factor of all ERβ isoforms for patients with NSCLC ( 9 ).
