RSS_IDENT_s_31390831_b_1_1
 1. Introduction Corneal dystrophies (CDs) are a diverse group of inherited disorders with a heterogeneous genetic background. Patients with various CDs are diagnosed according to the International Committee for Classification of Corneal Dystrophies (IC3D) guidelines through ophthalmologic examination, pathologic examination, and genetic analysis [ 1 ]. Posterior polymorphous corneal dystrophy (PPCD) is a rare, autosomal dominantly inherited, corneal endothelial dystrophy characterized by an abnormal transition of the corneal endothelium into stratified squamous epithelium and corneal edema [ 2 , 3 ]. PPCD is diagnosed based on ophthalmologic findings, but molecular genetic analysis can differentiate various clinically similar CDs [ 4 , 5 ]. Locus heterogeneity has been identified for PPCD with mutations in the COL8A2 (collagen type VIII alpha 2 chain) gene on chromosome 1p34.3 (PPCD2), the ZEB1 (zinc finger E-box binding homeobox 1) gene on chromosome 10p11.2 (PPCD3), and the GRHL2 (grainyhead like transcription factor 2) gene on chromosome 8q22.3 (PPCD4) [ 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 ]. A locus for PPCD1 maps to the pericentromeric region of chromosome 20. The phentotypes described as PPCD share similarities with a severe phenotype of CD that was originally termed congenital hereditary endothelial dystrophy (CHED). Patients with autosomal dominant CHED1 showed evident corneal opacity by 1 year of age and required corneal transplantation [ 10 ]. Previous studies demonstrated that these two disorders could be caused by mutations within the same gene but displayed variable phenotypic severity. This region was recently implicated in the transcriptional dysregulation of the OVOL2 (ovo like zinc finger 2) gene on chromosome 20p11.23 [ 11 ]. Therefore, CHED1 is no longer classified as a distinct disease entity but is considered a more severe form of PPCD1 in the updated 2015 IC3D. CHED2 is an autosomal recessive disease and presented with corneal opacity at birth or in the immediate newborn period. Mutations in SLC4A11 (solute carrier family 4 member 11), a transmembrane protein in the family of sbicarbonate transporters, are present in the majority of CHED2 patients [ 12 ]. However, not all genetic causes of endothelial CDs are known, thus, it is possible to identify novel candidate genes for CDs via continuous studies. Here, we report the identification of a novel heterozygous missense mutation in ZNF143 (zinc finger protein 143) found in three individuals of the same family with endothelial CD.
