RSS_IDENT_s_31487291_b_1_4
 Discussion Aβ is a product of pro-protein proteolysis–amyloid precursor protein (APP). It is catabolised in two metabolic pathways: physiological–non-amyloidogenic and pathological–amyloidogenic. In the first pathway APP degradation with α and γ secretases leads to production of non-toxic peptide Aβ 17–40 or Aβ 17–42. This takes place in normal ageing process of the brain. In the second (amyloidogenic) pathway secretases β and γ take part in production of toxic Aβ 1–40 and Aβ 1–42 proteins as it was demonstated in Alzheimer's disease. Many research data suggest that higher blood level of Aβ 1–40 and Aβ 1–42 increases the risk of Alzheimer's disease [ 6 , 7 ]. Hypoxia is one of the factors influencing on the increase of toxic Aβ 1–40 and Aβ 1–42 level. Correlation between Aβ level and hypoxia were documented in vitro and in animal models [ 4 , 8 ]. Hypoxia may have a wide-ranging influence on toxic Aβ 1–40 and Aβ 1–42 level. In the experimental studies it was proven that chronic hypoxia in mice caused fast increase of hypoxia inducible factor (HIF-1 α), which increases beta-secretase for beta-site APP cleaving enzyme (BACE-1) gene expression. This gene is responsible for increase of enzymatic activity of β secretase. As a result amyloidogenic pathway is activated and higher amount of toxic amyloid is produced [ 4 , 8 ]. Genetic knockout of BACE-1 gene in mice leads to reduction of β secretase activity and decrease of amyloid production. This confirms the role of BACE-1 overexpression in increased production of toxic amyloid [ 9 ]. In another study 50% hypoxia decreased ADAM-10 protein expression in human neuroblastoma tissue culture. As ADAM-10 protein influences α secretase activity, it may lead to amyloidogenic pathway activation [ 10 ]. It has also been observed that in tissue culture hypoxia decreases neprilysin (NEP) zinc metalloprotease activity. It is one of the main amyloid degrading enzymes [ 11 ]. These data suggest that hypoxia may lead to overproduction of Aβ and its reduced degradation in the brain. However, correlation between Aβ level and hypoxia in humans has not been clearly documented [ 12 ]. Regarding this ambiguity, assessment of Aβ level in OSA, a frequent cause of hypoxia, seems to be an interesting issue. Episodes of upper respiratory tract airways obstruction lead to hypoxia, which is documented with polygraphic examination. Testing Aβ 1–40 and 1–42 serum level and referring them to polygraphy results in our study led us to conclusion that there is a significant correlation between Aβ 1–40 serum level and hypoxia during sleep. What is more, this correlation seems to be quantitative–the more intense hypoxia, the higher Aβ 1–40 serum level. Aβ 1–40 level is not only significantly higher in group with the most exacerbated breathing disorders during sleep, but it is also positively correlated with AHI (r = 0.45; p<0.05) and negatively correlated with SpO₂ (r = -0.47; p<0.05). Regarding Aβ 1–42 no similar correlations have been found.
