RSS_IDENT_s_31504506_a_1_5
 Outcomes A total of 20 articles out of 1669 hits met our selection criteria. The mean vascular density (MVD) was studied by quantification of CD31, CD34, von Willebrand Factor (vWF) or factor-VIII-antibody-stained microvessels in seven studies. All these studies reported a significantly increased MVD in ectopic endometrium, and out of the six articles that took it into account, four studies reported a significantly increased MVD in eutopic endometrium compared with control endometrium. Five articles showed a significantly higher vascular endothelial growth factor expression in ectopic endometrium and three articles in eutopic endometrium compared with control endometrium. The vascular and pro-angiogenic markers α-smooth muscle actin, endoglin, S100A13, vimentin, matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), nuclear factor (NF)-kB, tissue factor (TF), DJ-1, phosphorylated mammalian target of rapamycin, activin A, folli- and myostatin, CD41, SLIT, roundabout 1 (ROBO1), cyclooxygenase-2, lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) 1,4-5, phospho signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (pSTAT3), interleukin (IL)-6, IL-22 and transforming growth factor-β1 were increased in ectopic endometrium, and the markers S100A13, MMP-2 and -9, TF, follistatin, myostatin, ROBO1, LPA1 and 4-5, pSTAT3, IL-6 and IL-22 were increased in eutopic endometrium, compared with control endometrium. The anti-angiogenic markers E-cadherin, eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3 subunit and gene associated with retinoic-interferon-induced mortality 19 were decreased in ectopic endometrium and IL-10 in eutopic endometrium, compared with control endometrium. The staining level of vWF and two pro-angiogenic markers (NF-κB nuclear p65 and TF) correlated with AUB in patients with adenomyosis. We found no studies that investigated the possible relationship between markers of angiogenesis and subfertility in adenomyosis patients. Nine articles reported on direct or indirect targeting of angiogenesis in adenomyosis—either by testing hormonal therapy or herbal compounds in clinical studies or by testing angiogenesis inhibitors in preclinical studies. However, there are no clinical studies on the effectiveness of such therapy for adenomyosis-related AUB or subfertility.
