RSS_IDENT_p_31516568_a_1_1
 Breast cancer is the second leading cause of cancer-associated mortality among women worldwide, and the prevalence and mortality rates associated with this disease are high in Western countries. The melanoma-associated antigen (MAGE) family proteins are well-known tumor-specific antigens; this family includes >60 proteins that serve an important part in cell cycle withdrawal, neuronal differentiation and apoptosis. The aim of the present study was to identify a biomarker within the MAGE family that is specific for breast cancer. In the present study, the prognostic role of MAGE mRNA expression was investigated in patients with breast cancer using the Kaplan-Meier plotter database. The prognostic value of MAGE members in the different intrinsic subtypes of breast cancer was further investigated, as well as the clinicopathological features of the disease. The results of the present study indicated that patients with breast cancer that had high mRNA expression levels of MAGEA5, MAGEA8, MAGEB4 and MAGEB6 had an improved relapse-free survival, whereas those with high mRNA expression levels of MAGEB18 and MAGED4 did not. These results suggested that MAGEA5, MAGEA8, MAGEB4 and MAGEB6 may have roles as tumor suppressors in the occurrence and development of breast cancer, whereas MAGEB18 and MAGED4 may possess carcinogenic potential. MAGED2, MAGED3 and MAGEF1 had different effects depending on the type of breast cancer. In particular, high MAGEC3 mRNA expression was associated with worse RFS in lymph node-positive breast cancer, but with improved RFS in lymph node-negative breast cancer. In patients with wild-type TP53 and patients with different pathological grades of breast cancer, MAGEE2, MAGEH1 and MAGEL2 were more worthy of attention as potential prognostic factors. The results of the present study may help to elucidate the role of MAGE family members in the development of breast cancer, and may promote further research that identifies MAGE-targeting reagents for the treatment of breast cancer.
