RSS_IDENT_p_31580518_a_1_1
 Over the last few decades, the number of cases of non‐melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) has risen to over 3 million cases every year worldwide. Members of the ERBB receptor family are important regulators of skin development and homeostasis and, when dysregulated, contribute to skin pathogenesis. In this study, we investigated leucine‐rich repeats and immunoglobulin‐like domains 2 (LRIG2), a transmembrane protein involved in feedback loop regulation of the ERBB receptor family during NMSC. LRIG2 was identified to be up‐regulated in various types of squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), but little is known about LRIG2 in cutaneous SCC (cSCC). To investigate the function of LRIG2 in cSCC in vivo, we generated a skin‐specific LRIG2 overexpressing transgenic mouse line (LRIG2‐TG) using the Tet‐Off system. We employed the 7,12‐dimethylbenz(a)anthracene/12‐O‐tetra‐decanoylphorbol‐13‐acetate (DMBA/TPA) two‐stage chemical carcinogenesis model and analyzed the skin during homeostasis and tumorigenesis. LRIG2‐TG mice did not exhibit alterations in skin development or homeostasis but showed an interaction between LRIG2 and thrombospondin‐1, which is often involved in angiogenesis and tumorigenesis. However, during carcinogenesis, transgenic animals showed significantly increased tumor progression and a more rapid development of cSCC. This was accompanied by changes in the ERBB system. After a single TPA application, inflammation of the epidermis was enhanced during LRIG2 overexpression. In human skin samples, LRIG2 expression was identified in the basal layer of the epidermis and in hair follicles of normal skin, but also in cSCC samples. In conclusion, epidermal LRIG2 excess is associated with activated EGFR/ERBB4‐MAPK signaling and accelerated tumor progression in experimentally induced NMSC, suggesting LRIG2 as a potential oncoprotein in skin. Abbreviations AKT RAC‐alpha serine/threonine‐protein kinase BME β‐mercaptoethanol BrdU bromodeoxyuridine CASP3 caspase 3 CDH1 E‐cadherin cSCC cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma EGF epidermal growth factor EGFR EGF receptor GAPDH glyceraldehyde‐3‐phosphate dehydrogenase HF hair follicle IB immunoblotted IL1A interleukin‐1‐alpha IL6 interleukin‐6 IP immunoprecipitation KRT keratin LOR loricrin LRIG leucine‐rich repeats and immunoglobulin‐like domains MAPK1/2 mitogen‐activated protein kinase 1/2 MKI67 proliferation marker protein Ki‐67 PCNA proliferating cell nuclear antigen PTEN phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5‐triphosphate 3‐phosphatase and dual specificity protein phosphatase PTEN RAS GTPase Ras proteins SHC1 SHC‐transforming protein 1 STAT signal transducer and activator of transcription THBS1 thrombospondin-1 TUBA1A tubulin alpha‐1a chain VIM vimentin
