RSS_IDENT_p_31653890_b_1_1_3
 Angiogenesis is a complex process that is mediated by various growth factors including vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) family ⁷ . VEGF family consists of seven secreted dimeric proteins, VEGF-A, B, C, D, E, F and the placental growth factor (PlGF). VEGF binds to at least two transmembrane tyrosine kinase receptors, named Flt1 (VEGF receptor-1 or VEGFR1) and Flk-1/KDR (VEGF receptor-2 or VEGFR2), on endothelial cells ⁸ . The levels of aqueous and vitreous VEGF-A were significantly elevated in patients with proliferative DR compared to the non-proliferative DR ⁹ . Unlike VEGF-A, VEGF-B possesses low angiogenic potential and does not induce vessel formation or sprouting. Signaling via VEGFR1 and neutropilin 1 (NRP-1), VEGF-B was considered as a potent survival factor of vascular cells which keeps the neo-vessels from apoptosis ¹⁰ , ¹¹ . PlGF, a member belonging to the VEGF family, was originally isolated from the human placenta and directly signals through VEGFR1. It was reported that the levels of PlGF were elevated in the vitreous and aqueous humor of patients with DR ¹² , ¹³ . A comparative research of vitreous PlGF levels in proliferative DR patients treated with or without anti-VEGF agent therapy revealed that PlGF levels were highly correlated with VEGF-A levels in active proliferative DR. This suggested that PlGF may also involve angiogenesis in the pathogenesis of DR possibly by amplifying the role of VEGF-A ¹⁴ . Some studies showed that stimulation of monocytes with PlGF or VEGF-A induced activation of several intracellular signaling molecules including phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3K), protein kinase B (Akt), extracellular signal-regulated kinase-1/2 (Erk1/2), and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) ¹⁵ – ¹⁷ . Overproduction of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) induced by activated PKC is related to vasodilation and hyperpermeability ¹⁸ . STAT1 (signal transducer and activator of transcription 1) has been implicated as a mediator of a variety of biological responses such as apoptosis in response to stimulations of specific growth factors and cytokines ¹⁹ . However, the exact roles of VEGF and PlGF, and their distinct downstream signaling have not been understood completely in the pathogenesis of angiogenesis of DR.
