RSS_IDENT_p_31832572_a_1_1
 We have recently shown that loss of β‐catenin prevents the development of cholestatic liver injury and fibrosis after bile duct ligation (BDL) due to loss of the inhibitory farnesoid X receptor (FXR)/β‐catenin complex, which results in decreased hepatic bile acids (BAs) through activation of FXR. To further understand the role of Wnt/β‐catenin signaling in regulating BA metabolism and cholestasis, we performed BDL on mice in which hepatocyte Wnt signaling is deficient but β‐catenin is intact (low‐density lipoprotein receptor‐related protein [LRP]5/6 knockout [DKO]) as well as mice that have enhanced hepatocyte β‐catenin expression (serine 45 mutated to aspartic acid [S45D] transgenic [TG] mice). Despite decreased biliary injury after BDL, hepatic injury, fibrosis, and inflammation were comparable in DKO and wild‐type (WT) mice. Notably, the FXR/β‐catenin complex was maintained in DKO livers after BDL, coincident with significantly elevated hepatic BA levels. Similarly, TG mice did not display accelerated injury or increased mortality despite overexpression of β‐catenin. There was no augmentation of FXR/β‐catenin association in TG livers; this resulted in equivalent hepatic BAs in WT and TG mice after BDL. Finally, we analyzed the effect of BDL on β‐catenin activity and identified an increase in periportal cytoplasmic stabilization and association with T‐cell factor 4 that correlated with increased expression of distinct downstream target genes. Conclusion: Localization of β‐catenin and expression of Wnt‐regulated genes were altered in liver after BDL; however, neither elimination of Wnt/β‐catenin signaling nor overexpression of β‐catenin in hepatocytes significantly impacted the phenotype or progression of BA‐driven cholestatic injury. β‐catenin plays a role in regulating bile acid metabolism through an inhibitory association with farnesoid X receptor (FXR), and β‐catenin loss protects mice from bile duct ligation (BDL)‐induced liver injury. In this study, we show that FXR/β‐catenin association and progression of injury is unaffected by either loss of Wnt signaling or overexpression of β‐catenin. We also show that localization of β‐catenin was altered in liver after BDL, and may be activating target genes that are involved in hepatocyte reprogramming. Abbreviations ALP alkaline phosphatase ALT alanine aminotransferase AST aspartate aminotransferase BA bile acid BDL bile duct ligation BSEP bile salt export pump CD clusters of differentiation Cyp cytochrome P450 DKO low‐density lipoprotein receptor‐related protein knockout FXR farnesoid X receptor GS glutamine synthetase IHC immunohistochemistry IP immunoprecipitation KO conditional knockout LRP low‐density lipoprotein receptor‐related protein MRP multidrug resistance‐associated protein Myc myelocytomatosis oncogene NTCP sodium‐taurocholate cotransporting polypeptide OATP4 organic anion transporting polypeptide 4 Ost organic solute transporter panCK pan cytokeratin RXR retinoic X receptor S45D serine 45 mutated to aspartic acid SHP small heterodimer partner Sox17 sex‐determining region Y‐box 17 TCF T‐cell factor TG transgenic WB western blot WT wild type
